[Music]
now when the pilot greets you on board
they'll talk about the weather and
flight duration after introducing
themselves in the crew but have you ever
been on a flight where the captain
introduced the plane itself I don't mean
Boeing 737 but something like Miss
Moneypenny really you can't make this
stuff up
planes are a relatively recent invention
before them there were another popular
means of mass transportation chips well
it might come as no surprise that
aviation inherited a lot of things from
seafaring distances are measured in
nautical miles aircraft can also be
called ships and the pilot is no less
than the captain himself plus he's got a
trusted crew to help him onboard each
major ship in history had its name the
Santa Maria USS Constitution HMS Victory
the Titanic you've heard of it Titanic a
lot of them were named after places they
came from historical figures or just
some noble sounding words so if you're
wondering where the practice comes from
the aviation industry took this old
maritime tradition and flew with it
the first major airline to do it was Pan
American Airways once the largest
international air carrier in the United
States in 1929 they invited Amelia
Earhart you know the first female pilot
to fly solo across the Atlantic Ocean to
wish good luck to their first aircraft
flying from Miami to Havana it was a
Ford tri-motor fittingly dubbed Cuba
they continued naming their aircraft
many of them with maritime monikers
until Delta bought the historic airline
in 1991
fortunately the naming tradition grew
strong and lived on around that same
time in the 1920s similar things were
happening across the pond KLM the
official Dutch airline gave its first
aircraft the name decoder which
translates as fat dirt they picked this
name after the last two letters in its
registration CD the fat part was a joke
about its unusually chubby fuselage the
airline still gives names to its planes
but mostly chooses cities heritage sites
and sometimes even local bird and insect
species for inspiration today a lot of
major airlines like Virgin America
Virgin Atlantic Qantas Iceland air and
JetBlue spend a good deal of time and
money coming up with the perfect name
for their aircraft before sending it off
now it seems logical the name a plane
after a famous explorer or the city it
was built in but sometimes the names
written below the pilots cockpit window
on the nose of the aircraft are way more
eccentric than that get ready to meet
pepper screw delicious Lady Bird
big yellow fella sounds like members of
some rock band many airlines name their
planes after something that means a lot
for their national culture traditions or
signs in Australia for example Qantas
aircraft proudly bear the name of local
cities Aboriginal art and the continents
first pilots one plane for example is
named Mary bird Walton after the woman
who founded the local female pilot
Association even though she was almost a
century old by the time her big metal
namesake first took to the skies she was
on that flight another interesting
naming example from Down Under is
nullabor which is the Latin for no trees
it's also a flat and arid region in
Australia with basically nothing in it
certainly no trees Virgin Australia
likes naming their planes after the
country's continents endless beaches
there are so many of them that they can
keep buying planes and never run out of
names the national airline of Israel
called El Al names its aircraft after
local cities so there might be a
Jerusalem and Tel Aviv flying somewhere
above the clouds right now
they always celebrate the naming of a
new plane with a whole ceremony in that
city in Hawaiian culture giving a name
to a person or even an object is a
revered practice they say it can make or
break a person's or objects prosperity
and spirit so it's no wonder Hawaiian
Airlines always names their planes and
they mostly take inspiration from
constellations flowers and birds
McCauley for example is a constellation
that's so important in Hawaiian
mythology that there's an Airbus 330 in
the local air fleet bearing its name
there's also an aircraft named after the
famous Maui born sumo wrestler Jesse -
Kamiyama Iceland is the place to be if
you want to see some striking landscapes
and powerful nature well with all its
volcanoes geysers Hot Springs and
glaciers when one volcano with a name
I'm not
even gonna try to pronounce see erupted
back in 2010 the whole world learned
about it since flights across the globe
were severely delayed
well Icelandair decided to name a Boeing
757 after the thing in the land of
spices airline marketing agents use that
ginormous flavorful variety for
inspiration when naming their aircraft
so head to India and you just might fly
in a plane called red chilli coriander
pepper or turmeric all those spicy names
are the fleet of spice jet airlines by
the way if you were to name a plane
after your favorite food or spice what
would it be
oh yes Tara this is flaming hot cheetos
requesting permission to land let me
know your pic down in the comments
it's also quite popular to name planes
after prominent people Russian national
air carrier Aeroflot looks to the
country's great writers scientists and
composers for inspiration so if you're
ever flying with the carrier don't be
surprised to hear the plane introduced
as Dostoyevsky broadsky
or Mendeley Virgin Atlantic airlines if
their planes mostly female names such as
pretty woman clean of the skies Lady
Bird and Indian princess these names are
accompanied by a painting of Lady Luck
on the side of the aircraft she's
painted in the pin-up girl style of
Peruvian artist Alberto Vargas the
airline also has a plane named after him
called Varga girl nice way to pay
tribute JetBlue airlines stays true to
their brand when naming every new plane
they get they tried to include the word
blue in that nickname their very first
plane was an airbus a320 called blue
bird that traveled from JFK to Fort
Lauderdale when they purchased the first
u.s. made Airbus they honored the famous
Alabama City it was built in by calling
the plane Bluesmobile among other
aircraft in their fleet are blue by
popular demand and hopelessly devoted to
blue and when airlines need some help
from the public
they hold competitions among their
social media followers to invent their
own perfect plane name from Irish
Ryanair to Australian Qantas airlines
give their fans a chance to commemorate
themselves or just get crazy and
creative when coming up with those names
some of the funniest suggestions Virgin
America got were pineapple Express and
hashtag nerd Berg to point out that
virgin is the first airline to have
fleet wide Wi-Fi another virgin plane
was named after an Irish sheep farmer
his son won the right to designate an
aircraft at a Virgin Unite auction
Singaporean airline scoop is using
eccentric plane names as a way to show
how cool and fresh they are many of
their flights are India about and some
savvy social media polling helped them
find the perfect
the Indian youth just loves according to
them they were screw delicious dream
start and big yellow fella
speaking of scoop it's not only the Jets
that get weird names but also the
airline's themselves there was one in
Taiwan called
Yu LAN hmm was there you fly as well
Ransome Airlines was a regional carrier
based in Pennsylvania vegas-based
Bonanza Airlines used to fly between the
western United States and Mexico there
was also the Russian airline
touch-and-go it seemed to be doing just
fine flying to Cyprus and Greece but in
the end the whole business was you know
touch-and-go
how about bra Airlines it was a
Brazilian airline but the name doesn't
come from women's undergarments it stood
for Brazil Road Oh area don't be too
upset that you can no longer book with
bra since they closed in 2007 so can we
say that bra was removed now we can't
okay
there's a whole new bra airline but it's
based in Sweden the acronym stands for
Broughton's regional Airways finally out
of the still existing and pretty
successful Airlines
there's the Hungarian budget airline
whiz air hey if you learn something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with a friend and here are some
other cool videos I think you'll enjoy
just click to the left or right and
remember stay on the bright side of life